PHP-Revision-Get
================
A tool for interfacing with PHP's RMTOOLS from the Windows
command line. Helpful for automating the download of packages and
per-revision binaries in QA and testing.

Pre-reqs
--------
For extracting the .zip downloads an unzip utility must be in your PATH.
Supported unzip utilities include [7-zip](http://www.7-zip.org/), 
[unzip](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/unzip.htm), and 
[jzip](http://www.jzip.com/)

For downloading, the presence of [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/download.html) 
in your PATH will allow simultaneous downloads, and will do so with less 
memory overhead than the built-in `MSXML2.XMLHTTP`.

Usage
-----
    php-revision-get help
        Get this help

    php-revision-get info [<RESTRAINTS>] [<COMMON>]
        Poll the remote JSON and return a list of available matching builds.

    php-revision-get bin[ary|ies|s] [<RESTRAINTS>] [<DOWNLOAD>] [<COMMON>]
        Poll the remote JSON and download all available matching builds.

Common Options
--------------
    --format=<json|xml>
        Specify the format of output.
        Note that some errors cannot be caught and output nicely,
        and some errors might occur before the format gets set. Write
        your consumers to catch non-expected output nicely.
        Default format is json.
        --xml               alias of --format=xml
        --json              alias of --format=json

    --base-url=<URL>
        Set the base URL. Defaults to: 
        [http://windows.php.net/downloads/snaps]

Restraints
----------
    This tool automatically assumes no restraints other than what you
    explicitly specify. This means that it will select all available 
    builds from the latest revision of each branch unless you tell it 
    otherwise. Below are the available restraints to apply.

    --revision=[<COMPARRISON>]<NUMBER>
        Limit to a specific revision or to revisions that match a 
        comparrison operator, such as "greater than", where optional 
        COMPARRISON is "<" or ">". Notice that there is no space 
        between the COMPARRISON operator and the NUMBER.
        --newer-than=<NUMBER>  alias of --revision="><NUMBER>

    --branch=<STRING>
        Limit to a specific branch, where STRING is a valid branch 
        built with RMTOOLS.
        --5.3                 alias of --branch="5.3"
        --trunk               alias of --branch="trunk"

    --threadsafety=<BOOLISH>
        Limit threadsafetiness to either ON or OFF
        --ts                  alias of --threadsafety=ON
        --nts                 alias of --threadsafety=OFF

    --compiler=<STRING>
        Limit to a specific compiler.
        --vc6                 alias of --compiler="vc6"
        --vc9                 alias of --compiler="vc9"

    --architecture=<STRING>
        Limit to a specific architecture
        --x86                 alias of --architecture="x86"

    --platform=<STRING>
        Limit to a specific platform
        --windows             alias of --platform="windows"

    --build-type=<STRING>
        Get a devel or debug package insteead of a standard build.
        NOTE: Unlike other restrinats, this one comes with a default
        value; to remove the restraint, use `--build-type="ALL"`.
        --standard            alias of --build-type="standard"
        --debug               alias of --build-type="debug"
        --devel               alias of --build-type="devel"

Download Options
----------------
    When running a function that downloads builds or source snapshots,
    these options help specify how to handle the output.

    --output-directory=<PATH>
        Specify a directory in which to save downloaded items.
        If an output directory is not specified, CWD is used.
        --output-dir=<PATH>   alias of --output-directory=<PATH>

    --unzip[=<BOOLISH>]
        Specify whether or not to unzip any downloaded .zip archives.
        Default behavior is to automatically unzip.
        --no-unzip            alias of --unzip="OFF"
        --disable-unzip       alias of --unzip="OFF"

    --cleanup[=<BOOLISH>]
        Specify whether or not to remove an archive that has been 
        extracted. If no value is present, TRUE is assumed.
        Default behavior is to automatically cleanup.
        --no-cleanup          alias of --cleanup="OFF"
        --disable-cleanup     alias of --cleanup="OFF"

